about.md, before:

I am a software developer. I work as Engineering Manager in the Languages Team at [Sonar](https://www.sonarsource.com/). We create [SonarQube](https://www.sonarqube.org/), [SonarCloud](http://sonarcloud.io/) and [SonarLint](https://www.sonarlint.org/), tools which millions of developers and tens of thousands of organizations use to deliver better, more secure software. Previously, I wrote software at Microsoft Ireland, empowering customers to buy and manage their Office 365 subscriptions.

You can check my work experience on: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/epureandrei/), [Github](https://github.com/andrei-epure-sonarsource), [Sonar community](https://community.sonarsource.com/u/Andrei_Epure/summary).

In addition to being a programmer, I am also:
- a husband
- an [Orthodox Christian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_Orthodox_Church)
- a [Romanian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romania) expat living in Switzerland
- proud alumni of the [Politehnica University of Bucharest](https://upb.ro/en/) and the ["Vasile Alecsandri" College in Galati](https://cnva.eu/)

Commit message:

fix jekyll setup by adding a Gemfile, a 404 and metadata in the about page

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

I am a software developer. I work as Engineering Manager in the Analysis Team at [Sonar](https://www.sonarsource.com/). We create [SonarQube](https://www.sonarqube.org/), [SonarCloud](http://sonarcloud.io/) and [SonarLint](https://www.sonarlint.org/), tools which millions of developers and tens of thousands of organizations use to deliver better, more secure software. Previously, I wrote software at Microsoft Ireland, empowering customers to buy and manage their Office 365 subscriptions.

You can check my work experience on: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/epureandrei/), [Github](https://github.com/andrei-epure-sonarsource), [Sonar community](https://community.sonarsource.com/u/Andrei_Epure/summary).

In addition to being a programmer, I am also:
- a husband
- an [Orthodox Christian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_Orthodox_Church)
- a [Romanian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romania) expat living in Switzerland
- proud alumni of the [Politehnica University of Bucharest](https://upb.ro/en/) and the ["Vasile Alecsandri" College in Galati](https://cnva.eu/)
